[Music]
hey it's for you 12 mistakes you make
while charging your phone
you know gadgets these days have so many
different functions that they've become
everything a person might need all
stuffed into a palm-sized device but one
big drawback of this technological
advancement is that batteries can't keep
up with the workload and die too quickly
and while mobile producers continue to
improve on batteries to make them charge
faster and last longer people still keep
doing all kinds of crazy stuff because
they'll think it'll extend their battery
life like throwing their phone in the
freezer well we're gonna get into this
plus more common mistakes people make
when it comes to charging their devices
and what you can do instead to prolong
your phone's battery we've got lots of
helpful videos like this one on the
bright side of life so go ahead and hit
that subscribe button and turn on post
notifications so that you'll always be
in the know on all our new updates here
we go mistake number one charging your
phone to the max before using it for the
first time Wow we've all heard of this
one right you bring your phone home from
the store plug it in and wait until your
new baby is full to the brim
in fact some mobile sales people even
recommend doing this it is however
nothing but a myth cell phone batteries
work best when they're charged only up
to 40 to 80 percent
and that's exactly how much charge any
smartphone in a store has that's why
you'll be perfectly fine if you just buy
a phone take it out of the box and start
using it right away but there's one
important thing to remember if you fire
up your new cell phone and notice that
the battery indicator shows less than 40
percent charge you should probably take
it back to the store such a low
percentage usually means that the
battery is all mistake number two not
using your phone while it's charging
tons of people are convinced that if
they use their cell phone while it's
charging this will harm the battery's
lifespan others believe that in this
case the battery won't charge as well as
it can when it's not in use
you'll probably be happy to know that
this too is a misconception it doesn't
matter whether you're using your phone
or not it'll still charge the same exact
way consider this even when you aren't
working with your gadget it's still
completing some mysterious tasks of its
own like synchronizing data this means
that you can easily add several more
tasks to this workload mistake number
three being afraid that Chargers from a
different brand will kill your battery
now it is true that some off-brand
chargers may not be the best choice for
your phone and they do typically take
longer to charge the battery but if the
charger works well enough it won't harm
your mobile device so if you need to
urgently charge your phone in an
emergency or the factory charger it came
with doesn't work anymore you can get
any cheap version that's compatible with
your smart phone unfortunately this
doesn't apply to the Droid turbo
it requires a charger designed
specifically for this device mistake
number four thinking that turning your
phone off will damage the battery yes
if you leave your phone off for an
extended amount of time its battery is
going to die that's a totally normal
thing all batteries do but if you simply
shut your device off from time to time
nothing dramatic will happen in fact
some devices may actually start working
more effectively after you reboot them
doing this also helps restore the
functionality of their batteries mistake
number five trying to train your battery
re boy fetch some people think that they
can train their battery so that it'll be
able to hold more charge they let the
battery drain completely before
recharging it again and never ever
charge their phone if it's only at fifty
or sixty percent their reasoning is that
batteries have memory and if you don't
wait to charge your phone before it's
almost hit 0% the battery won't work as
well as it used to but this idea has no
ground to stand on so feel free to
charge your phone even if the battery is
as full as 90% charging our phone
frequently doesn't hurt the battery
mistake number six not charging your
phone overnight for fear of damaging the
battery don't you think that smartphones
were dud smart for a reason da I don't
know these devices know for sure when to
stop charging because the battery is
full on the other hand while overnight
charging doesn't harm your phone in any
way it's still not the most effective
way to do it if you want to extend your
battery's lifespan keep it charged
between 40 and 80 percent believe it or
not this actually helps the battery live
the longest mistake number seven putting
the battery in the freezer to make it
last longer woohoo just like a Milky Way
candy bar
well this misconception goes way back to
the 80s when people would put batteries
in the freezer for short periods of time
to make them work longer but freezing
your phone does nothing more than kill
the battery the thing is that lithium
ion batteries react badly to both cold
and heat the best temperature for this
sort of battery is room temperature
mistake number eight using task managers
to prolong battery life forget
everything you've ever been told about
task managers they do not prolong your
battery life the built-in system on your
phone is already dealing with everything
that should be done to keep your
device's performance in tip-top shape as
for third party task managers they're
actually more likely to decrease your
phone's performance yes they can control
the apps you use but they really hurt
the battery life mistake number nine
fearing to leave your phone charger
plugged in you've probably heard that
after you finished charging your mobile
device you should unplug the charger
from the wall for safety reasons and
fire prevention well leaving your
charger dangling from the wall is
ill-advised only in the following
situations you have pets your charger
makes weird noises or leaks your house
or apartment complex doesn't have any
lightning protection
there's a chance that your neighbors may
have a water leak in all other cases
it's perfectly safe to leave your
charger plugged in it's up to you to
decide whether or not to do this mistake
number 10 not charging laptops all the
time to prevent damage just like with
cell phones laptop battery stopped
charging as soon as their fall
experts recommend discharging your
laptop to 0% no more than once a month
as for any damage that can ruin the
device in most cases it happens because
of overheating not from keeping the
laptop plugged in overheating in turn is
often due to operator error that's right
it's your fault
bub mistake number 11 believing that the
Internet runs your battery down the
fastest now first of all let's specify
what you're using the internet for if
you're doing different graphic intensive
activities such as online gaming or
watching bright side videos on YouTube
then your battery will unfortunately die
much faster these sorts of activities
simply need impressive amounts of energy
to display those awesome graphics but if
you're just surfing the net or reading
articles it doesn't influence your
battery life any more than listening to
music does and if you just can't live
without playing another round of your
favorite online mobile game dim the
screen as much as possible to prolong
the battery life at least a little bit
mistake number 12
turning off Bluetooth GPS and Wi-Fi to
prolong the battery life now you should
know that the only time when any of
these services may drain your battery is
when you're actively using them the rest
of the time they might pull some amount
of energy from the battery but it's not
really a lot and doesn't drain it
completely in fact Wi-Fi consumes even
less energy than your smart phone needs
to maintain the cellular data connection
Apple even encourages its users to leave
Wi-Fi turned on to save battery all
right now you're all caught up on what
not to do when charging your phone and
what you can do instead how about some
more tips that'll help you prolong your
battery life keep batteries cool as
we've already mentioned when the
temperature is too hot or too cool
batteries throw a hissy fit and tap out
quickly
that's why you should avoid leaving your
smart phone tablet or laptop in direct
sunlight or in a hot car and definitely
don't take your gadgets to a hot place
like the beach or sauna if it's possible
avoid wireless charging as the heat it
generates can bake your battery and if
you need to store your gadget or its
battery place them in a cool dry place
store batteries with a bit of charge
while we're on the topic of storing
batteries in a cool dry place also make
sure you give them at least half a
charge first the problem with storing
batteries is that they lose their charge
over time and when this charge drops to
zero your battery will automatically
kill itself so it doesn't become
unstable hardcore I don't
so if your battery has ever let you down
at the worst moment possible hit that
like button and let us know what
happened down in the comments we'd love
to hear your story if you have any other
tips on prolonging battery life share
your wisdom and leave your advice down
below - thanks a million and we'll see
you next time